# 2025-05-26 Notes

Felipe Fonseca

First day of re-publica in Berlin, second day of the GIG week. I presented CMVC briefly at the ZLB yesterday. The slides are [here](2025-05-25_slides.pdf).

I'm writing this down as an attempt to capture my sense of the current state of the project, as GIG members have been asking me about it these days.

- It's easier to engage in a deep converation with GIG members from abroad than talking to people in zero waste and circular projects here in Berlin. It may have to do with language and culture, of course. But there's also a lower level of familiarity with the ideas of openness and commons. Some people are too busy to contribute. Others are suspicious of our intentions. 

I had great chats with GIG members, navigating diverse aspects of the question. Incentive systems. Prioritising local reuse. Systems of reuse. How to optimise sorting for social value instead of economic value. Just as much as the waste framework priority system, but expanding for local systems. Externalities and industrial populism.

Why explore the idea of class identity? Not sure yet, not even if it's a profession in itself or a function performed by different actors. But there are humans performing that labour, and the way things are today, their work is shaped around narrow views on economic value. Can this product be reintroduced in the market? Can it be recycled to benefit manufacturers (while also greenwashing a bit)? Issue with circularity in terms of closed loop. Spiral to divert value from manufacturers. 

How to design technologies to improve the quality of life and conditions of work of those already engaged with the territory (instead of replacing them). Reuse Academy.
